   





%As elected officials gain institutional power and experience, we theorize that they prioritize policy work relative to particularistic constituency service. At the same time, however, we expect power and experience to increase their overall capacity. The magnitude of these countervailing dynamics determines how absolute levels of constituency service change as elected officials gain institutional power and experience. 

% Similar countervailing dynamics determine relative and absolute levels of service for different types of constituents, such as individuals and corporations. % POSSIBLE ADDITION TO ADDRESS DAN'S CRITIQUE

%Our results thus have implications for theories of representation and proposed reforms, including staffing allocations and term limits. 

%To examine how increased experience and power affect behavior, we assemble a massive new database of  \input{../tables/n} Congressional requests to federal agencies between 2007 and 2018 obtained through \input{../tables/foia_requests} FOIA requests, a near census of departments, agencies, and sub-agencies.

%We find that most legislator contacts with the bureaucracy are constituency service, regardless of institutional position and tenure. 

%Leveraging variation within legislator-agency pairs, we show that legislators prioritize policy work as they gain power and experience, but increasing overall capacity enables them to maintain levels of constituency service. Consistent with our theory, new legislators do less policy work and constituency service than their more senior colleagues. In a series of robustness checks, we show that our findings are not the result of exogenous variation in constituent demand.

%Rather than long-serving and powerful elected officials diverting attention from their district,  their increased capacity enables them to maintain levels of constituency service, even as they prioritize policy work.



% OLD (JAN 2022) ABSTRACT 

%When elected officials gain experience and institutional power, do they use it to provide more constituent service or affect broad public policies? To examine how increased experience and power affect behavior, we assemble a massive new database of  \input{../tables/n} Congressional requests to federal agencies between 2007 and 2018 obtained through \input{../tables/foia_requests} FOIA requests, a near census of departments, agencies, and sub-agencies. Leveraging variation within legislator-agency pairs, we find that shifts in both capacity and attention explain legislator behavior. When legislators acquire more institutional power---particularly committee chairmanships---they provide more constituency service, even as they allocate a larger share of their efforts towards broader policy goals. Newly-elected legislators incur start-up costs and provide less service, but this difference erodes after two years. In a series of robustness checks, we show that our findings are not the result of exogenous variation in constituent demand, nor are they merely a result of voters more easily recognizing more experienced legislators. Rather than experienced and powerful legislators focusing their efforts in Washington and away from their district, we demonstrate that legislators use their increased resources to provide more constituency service. 